[MUSIC]
In today's lesson, we are going
to talk about two commands that
can help you find files and directories.
The first command we are going
to cover is the find command.
You supply a path to find and
a search expression and
find will return the results that
match the path and expression.
If you don't tell find what to look for
it just returns all the files that are in
your current directory and all
the sub-directories below that directory.
You can give find a search pattern
by using the dash name option, and
find will return all the files and
directories that match that pattern.
If you use -iname,
that tells find to ignore case.
If you provide the -ls option to find,
it will run ls -l,
a long listing format display of
the files and directories that it finds.
You can search for files by modification
time by using the -mtime option to find.
You can also search for
files based on size using -size.
To find files in directories that
were created after another file,
you can give that file
to find with -newer.
If you want to execute a command against
all the results that find returns,
you can use the -exec option,
or dash e-x-e-c.
You then provide the command that
you want to run, and in the command,
with an escaped semi colon.
The matching curly braces represent the
file or directory that was found by find.
If you run find without any options,
it just finds everything in your
present working directory and below.
That's the same really as running find.
Which dot represents this directory.
Let's look in /sbin for
something named makedev.
Didn't return any results.
Let's do a case insensitive search.
-iname.
And we can see that there's a file
named makedev but it's all uppercase.
So when using name it matches case.
When using iname it ignores case.
Let's look in bin and
find any file that ends in *v.
So star means match anything.
And we can see that it
returns two results.
Let's look for
files that are more than 10 days old, but
less than 13 days old in
the current directory.
So we can use -mtime for
modification time.
And those are the files that it returns.
It's also important to note
that you can use multiple
options to find at the same time.
So let's find anything that begins
with s* and perform an -ls on it.
Okay, just one file.
Let's find things that are of size +1M or
greater.
And we find one result there.
So, this you can use 1 megabyte,
1 kilobyte, 1 gigabyte, et cetera.
So, no files that are over
a gigabyte in size in my directory.
Let's find all the directories
that are newer than file.txt.
You can see file.txt was
created on February 15th.
Tpsreports was created on February 16th.
So, it is indeed newer than file.txt.
So this command will find everything
in the current directory.
Find dot, and
it's going to execute the file command
against all the search results.
Let's just run this.
The file command.
Just tells what kind of file it is,
it's the best guess as to what it thinks
the contents of the file represents.
The locate command is similar to the find
command in that you can tell it what to
look for, and it will return a list of
results that match your search pattern.
Locate is faster than the find command.
The find command looks through the path
you gave it and evaluates each and
every file and directory and determines
if that matches your search pattern or
not and then returns those results.
The locate command, however,
works off of an index.
Typically, the index is rebuilt every day.
Instead of evaluating each and every
file to see if it matches the pattern,
locate just does a lookup in the index.
What you need to know about this is
that the results are not in real time.
There is a lag between the time
that the index gets created and
the time that you run the locate command.
So if you're looking for a file that was
created just two or three minutes ago,
chances are it's not
going to be in the index.
Your only hope for finding that file is
with the find command that evaluates files
and directories in real time.
Also on some systems,
locate is not enabled by default.
Let's use the locate
command to find files and
directories that have sales in the name.
Get four results back.
Let's do another example.
You don't have to specify a full name.
You can specify a part of a name.
So, let's look for t-p-s-r-e.
And that returns three results.
Let's create a new file.
And the touch command just
simply creates an empty file.
Now if we run our locate command again
we can see that the file is not found.
Let's do it with the file's name.
That's because the index
is not up-to-date.
Let's use the find command to evaluate all
of these in real time, and we'll see that,
indeed, we can find the file
with the find command.
Today we talked about the find command and
locate command.
Find searches for files and
directories in real time.
Find is very powerful and
has many options.
The locate command can
be faster than find, but
the disadvantage is is that
it's not in real time.
[MUSIC]